README.md, before:

# dotfiles-fish

Fish shell configuration. Comes as it is, maybe it's useful to someone.

Under the hood I use `chezmoi` to manage this, this published version is the output of the templates.

The only templated file is `os.fish` which is modified based on the invoking OS.

More about `chezmoi` at [**twpayne/chezmoi**](https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi).

You don't need to worry about this, though; as I say, this repo contains the resolved templates for the macOS platform.

## Plugins

I use `fisher` to manage plugins. You can grab it from [**jorgebucaran/fisher**](https://github.com/jorgebucaran/fisher).

### Prompt

One of the plugins is `tide`, a better `fish` version of `powerlevel10k`. Once installed, it will start its configuration process, so just be aware of that. You can read more of its documentation at [**IlanCosman/tide**](https://github.com/IlanCosman/tide).

### Theme

I use the `rose-pine` theme because it is nifty as hell. More detail at [**rose-pine/fish**](https://github.com/rose-pine/fish). There are themes for most things under the [**rose-pine**](https://github.com/rose-pine) user if you like it and want to integrate it across your system.

### `asdf`

I use `asdf` to manage versions of development tools. One of the plugins integrates it.

More detail is available at [**asdf-vm/asdf**](https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf).

It's set up for the latest version of `asdf` which has moved from a chunk of shellscript to a proper binary.

## `sixkcd`

This repo includes `sixkcd`, a script (originally `bash`) which I've and adapted and ported to `fish` from [**csdvrx/sixel-testsuite**](https://github.com/csdvrx/sixel-testsuite). It uses Sixel graphics to show the current `xkcd` and its alt text as the MOTD. Read the comments if you have any trouble with it - there are a couple of configuration options.

Sixel graphics are only supported in certain terminals. `iTerm2` fully supports them, and that's what I use. You can check support for your terminal at [**Are We Sixel Yet?**](https://www.arewesixelyet.com).

I'm unsure if the terminal detection method requires the `iTerm2` shell integration. If you're using `iTerm2` you should be using it anyway, so set it up or turn off the shell detection in the configuration section of the script if it's telling you that you're not using `iTerm2` when you are.

If your terminal does not support Sixel graphics, and the terminal detection fails for any reason or is turned off, the script will spew out printable characters on startup.

## Missing files

### `secrets.fish`

Create `secrets.fish` containing any secrets you want to keep private. It's just set up this way so I can commit the other files without having to worry about accidentally committing sensitive information.

Example:

```fish
set -gx API_KEY "your_api_key"
```

Commit message:

📝 Update documentation and configuration to reflect current setup
Updated documentation in CLAUDE.md and README.md to accurately reflect the
current configuration, tools, and plugins. Removed outdated references to
tools like `yank` Python script and updated information about the prompt
(starship instead of tide) and theme (catppuccin instead of rose-pine).
Simplified chezmoi abbreviations, removed unused functions like `globals`
and `queue-prs`, and renamed `yank-all` to `yank`. Added Cloudflare email
to environment variables.

README.md, after:

# dotfiles-fish

Fish shell configuration. Comes as it is, maybe it's useful to someone.

Under the hood I use `chezmoi` to manage this; this published version is the output of the templates.

The only templated file is `os.fish`, which is modified based on the invoking OS.

More about `chezmoi` at [**twpayne/chezmoi**](https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi).

You don't need to worry about this, though; as I say, this repo contains the resolved templates for the macOS platform.

## Plugins & Integrations

I use `fisher` to manage plugins. You can grab it from [**jorgebucaran/fisher**](https://github.com/jorgebucaran/fisher).

### Prompt

The prompt is managed by [`starship`](https://starship.rs/), a fast, cross-shell prompt. It is initialized in `interactive.fish`.

### Theme

I use the [`catppuccin`](https://github.com/catppuccin/fish) theme for pretty much everything. There are Catppuccin themes for many tools if you want a consistent look across your system.

### `mise`

I use [`mise`](https://github.com/jdx/mise) to manage versions of development tools. Completions and activation are handled in `interactive.fish` and `os.fish`.

## Notable Files

- `config.fish`: Main entry point, sources all other config files
- `vars.fish`: Global environment variables
- `abbrs.fish`: Command abbreviations
- `aliases.fish`: Command aliases
- `funcs.fish`: Custom functions
- `os.fish`: OS-specific configuration (templated)
- `interactive.fish`: Interactive shell setup (prompt, completions, plugins)
- `final.fish`: Runs at the end of config, e.g., for PATH tweaks
- `tools/sixkcd`: Shows XKCD comics as MOTD using Sixel graphics (see comments in script for config)

## `sixkcd`

This repo includes `sixkcd`, a script (originally `bash`) which I've adapted and ported to `fish` from [**csdvrx/sixel-testsuite**](https://github.com/csdvrx/sixel-testsuite). It uses Sixel graphics to show the current `xkcd` and its alt text as the MOTD. Read the comments if you have any trouble with it—there are a couple of configuration options.

Sixel graphics are only supported in certain terminals. `iTerm2` fully supports them, and that's what I use. You can check support for your terminal at [**Are We Sixel Yet?**](https://www.arewesixelyet.com).

If your terminal does not support Sixel graphics, and the terminal detection fails for any reason or is turned off, the script will spew out printable characters on startup.

## Missing files

### `secrets.fish`

Create `secrets.fish` containing any secrets you want to keep private. It's just set up this way so I can commit the other files without having to worry about accidentally committing sensitive information.

Example:

```fish
set -gx API_KEY "your_api_key"
```
